# CS3 Q1 Reflections
# Lessons
## List and describe at least 5 topics that we discussed in class that you know very well. Each description should be at least 1 paragraph with twoto five sentences.
1. **Markdown** - While not discussed in class, it is a skill we are expected to know to perform certain activities (bonuses, this reflection, etc.). Markdown is a method of formatting that allows the user to format through the use of symbols while typing the text, instead of using ctrl commands or clicking the formatting  button. As a user of Obsidian, I have quite a lot of experience in using and utilizing markdown. 
2. **JavaScript Operators** - These are symbols that are used to operate (example: alter, combine) on variables. As many of these were already discussed and used back in Python and C++, I had an easy time with them. The various demos and practice exercises given also helped me in using them in JavaScript.
3. **JavaScript Selection Statements** - Statements that allow for the selection control structure to be executed. Examples of these include the if-else statement, switch statement, and ternary operator. 2/3 of the given were statements taught and used in C++, which is why I was at ease with them. As for the ternary operator, the syntax is very simple, and through the discussions, I can really see how I can turn my if-else statements to the ternary operator. 
4. **JavaScript Input/Output Statements** - These are statements that allow for inputs from the user and outputs, based on the input, from the website to be collected and displayed. Some of the input statements in JavaScript include the alert popup and the usage of HTML elements. As for output, three statements were taught: console.log, document.write, and alert. The various exercises (both graded and nongraded tasks) done in class helped me a lot in understanding how they're used, and when to use them.
5. **HTML Elements** - HTML elements are the building blocks of HTML documents, wherein the content and the skeleton of the website is. Whlie the main topic of the quarter was JavaScript, we touched a bit of HTML in the class, especially with Graded Tasks 2 and 3. Even though my ease in HTML was due to my advance studying during the summer, integrating it with JavaScript was a new experience, and I still learned a lot from it. 

## List at least 5 topics that you know and can describe but needs further practice/discussion and why. The why should be per topic listed.  
1. **JavaScript Functions** - While CS2 helped me become more familiar with functions, JavaScript introduced new ways to declare them. Due to that, I am still fairly confused how/why these methods work, mainly the arrowhead method and whatever method was it that's being used in the more recent graded tasks, and how to actually use them. I may need some thorough explanations on them or just a few graded tasks/practice exercises where I have to write that first line myself. 
2. **JavaScript For Loops** - We often used them in C++, especially for arrays. However, in JavaScript, there are times when some parts of the syntax (counting variable, condition) may be left blank due to various reasons/purposes. As this is something new to me, I sometimes still trip up when I see them in codes (ex. 7th Graded Task). Because of this, I need more activities wherein I may possibly or will actually need to use these methods so that I may actually understand its applications.
3. **JavaScript Do While Loops** - Even though it was discussed in CS2, I never really used it. It's not necessarily a difficult topic, but I think I need to atleast use do while 2-3 times for a code to say I'm actually confident with it.
4. **JavaScript Math Objects** - Discussed during online, it took me quite a while to understand the distinct differences in function of the various objects and which one is used to round up, round down, etc. I also took a long time understanding why/how something like `Math.random() * 10` worked. To this day, I *think* i understand the basics, but I really need a more dedicated discussion on this alongside some demos/practices wherein I have to think as to which ones I have to use for my algorithms. 
5. **JavaScript Number Objects** - Also discussed with the Math Objects, I knew of this beforehand due to the KHub lessons but they initially confused me when I just read it. However, when they were finally discusssed and presented, I think it's clear to me how they work and why they work, especially the different between `Number()` and `parseInt()` or `parseString()`, with the forming returning `NaN` when there's a non-numeric value within the string provided. Unfortunately though, to completely understand this topic, I feel that I need to use it in an algorithm/code out of my own accord to be sure that I am truly familiar with these statements/objects. 

## Describe on what will be your plan of action in order to help yourself in understanding further the topics listed on the second items.
### My Plans of Action
- Analyze the algorithms for the other graded tasks that included any of the listed things above so that I can see the flow of process and therefore understand how or why they worked, even with that syntax.
- Perform random examples/statements to compare the Math and Number objects, to compare and contrast their functions and uses. 
- Create various algorithms that require the usage of any of the listed statements so that I can further recognize, internalize, and practice when I need them and how I can use them.

*If ever I still don't understand, ask I will ask ma'am Aline or search the statements online using references such as w3schools.com.*

# In the activities that were done in class, list at least two that you think were effective and at least two that you think not effective in helping you understand topics in our course and why?
## Effective
1. **Graded Activities** - During each specific topic, at least two graded exercises were given for it. Often, they are spaced out so that we do at least one during class, and the other can be continued at home. I really appreciate it as I get to do these tasks both in a faster, pressured pace (during class) and slower, calmer pace (at home). Since everything needed is taught before we do the given tasks, I find that these activities are a good way to apply everything that we've discussed to an algorithm that looks familiar, but is also new to us at the same time. Also, the students being unsupervised (but helped, when requested for) is a good way to let us work alone and synthesize and understand the topic ourselves (and maybe, sometimes, with the help of our friends).
2.  **Demonstrations** - The discussions for each topic are always comprehensive, and each and every point mentioned comes with one-two examples, helping us visualize and understand it better. I like that we are given various ways to perform the same algorithm, and that most things we learn are being connected to C++. Also, the class discussions being less of a formal format (aka slides & very-very structured), I like how ma'am makes this discussion style work, especially since I usually have a hard time when there aren't slides for classes. 

## Ineffective
1. **Online Class Kahoot** - In general, Kahoot if effective for me in reviewing, learning, or testing myself. However, the Kahoot done during online class wasn't really effective for me as there was way too short of time to fully analyze the block of code even (and sometimes, I can't even read it). 
2. **Speed Test** - HELPFUL YES! I unfortunately just had to put this down in ineffective as, in my opinion, it was one of the least effective activities, as compared to the class discussions, Kahoot, and demosntrations. The speed test helped me in immediately breaking down the expectations for the algorithm and figuring out the sequence of the statements i need to perform in order to achieve it. It allows for my brain to work and think fast. However, under pressure/fatigue, it's like the worst thing to have.